## XRogue: Expeditions into the Dungeons of Doom


### Introduction

Rogue was introduced at the University of California at Berkeley as a
screen-oriented fantasy game.  The game had 26 types of monsters that
the player could meet while exploring a Dungeon generated by the computer.
Scrolls, potions, rings, wands, staves, armor, and weapons helped the
player to battle these monsters and to gain gold, the basis for scoring.

XRogue 8.0 has been expanded to include over 200 monsters with many new 
capabilities. Many of the monsters are intelligent and they, like the 
player, must avoid traps and decide when it is better to fight or to run.
There are a number of new commands in this version as well.

See the file xrogue80.doc for a basic player's guide

#### To play

xrogue [ save_file ]


### Machine Dependent Details

Under Linux/Unix you must create the directory /usr/local/games/xrogue
with world read/write permission, otherwise no score will be kept.

Under DOS/Windows you must create the directory C:\GAMES\XROGUE,
otherwise no score will be kept.


#### Files created

Linux/Unix:  
      Score file: /usr/local/games/xrogue/xrogue.scr  
      Default save file: ~/xrogue.sav

DOS/Windows:  
      Score file: C:\GAMES\XROGUE\XROGUE.SCR  
      Default save file: xrogue.sav


### Copying

XRogue: Expeditions into the Dungeons of Doom  
Copyright (C) 1988, 1992, 2000 Bob Pietkivitch, Ken Dalka and Mike Morgan  
All rights reserved.

Adapted from "Advanced Rogue: Deeper into the Dungeons of Doom"  
Copyright (C) 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986 Ken Dalka, Mike Morgan  
All rights reserved.

Adapted from "Rogue: Exploring the Dungeons of Doom"  
Copyright (C) 1980, 1981 Michael Toy, Ken Arnold and Glenn Wichman  
All rights reserved.

Containing portions of "FreeSec: libcrypt"  
Copyright (C) 1994 David Burren  
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
   list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors
   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
   specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


### In Memoriam

Robert J. Pietkivitch
1955-2002

Bob passed away on December 3rd, 2002.  
He will be always loved by friends and family.
 
In May 1996, Bob gave me the latest version of XRogue's source code that he
had in the hope it could be made to run under Windows. This had been a hope
of his for a few years. I don't think his expectations were high at first,
but he was excited when I reported progress. He tested various restoration 
releases up until my final contact with him in May 2000. He was a joy to
work with.


